Define and activate Azure 11.4.0 release (#290)
giantswarm/releases: azure/v11.4.0/README.md

> ## :zap:  Giant Swarm Release 11.4.0 for Azure :zap:

Author: @giantswarm/chapter-se if your customer is on Azure, please carefully review the release notes and especially the documented post-cluster-upgrade migration process steps.

Reviewer: Thanks a lot for the very detailed explanation on what to do

> **If you are upgrading from 11.3.3, upgrading to this release will not roll your nodes. It will only update the apps.**

Reviewer 2: This is false, if we're going to use azure operator 4.1.0

Author: 4.1.0-dev is being used but I didn't observe nodes being rolled. Will test once more and pay attention to that aspect.

Author: Removed this note, since after all we will be upgrading k8s in the same release

## :zap:  Giant Swarm Release 11.4.0 for Azure :zap:

> In this release NGINX Ingress Controller LoadBalancer Service external traffic policy has been made configurable, and the policy default has been changed from `Cluster` to `Local`. These changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**In this release, NGINX Ingress Controller LoadBalancer Service external traffic policy has been made configurable, and the policy default has been changed from `Cluster` to `Local`.**

These changes:
```

- Enable source IP preservation, needed for IP based security access control.
- Remove unnecessary ingress traffic intra-cluster network hops, increasing concurrent connection capacity and reducing latency.

> - Allow configuration to be reverted, where these defaults and associated tradeoffs are found not to be appropriate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Allow configuration to be reverted, where these defaults and associated tradeoffs are found to be inappropriate.
```

> Management of NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service is moved from azure-operator to NGINX IC App itself to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Management of NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service is moved from azure-operator to NGINX IC App itself** to:
```

- Enable external traffic policy configurability, in a way consistent with other NGINX IC configuration options.
- Lay the foundation for making NGINX IC App optional and not pre-installed in a future Azure platform release.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Along with azure-operator and NGINX IC, minor improvements were also made to coreDNS, cluster-operator, Flatcar, and Kubernetes.
```

> When upgrading clusters, migration of LoadBalancer Service is automated but not fully automatic. Therefore, please delegate cluster upgrades to your SE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**When upgrading clusters, migration of LoadBalancer Service is automated but not fully automatic. Therefore, please delegate cluster upgrades to your SE.**
```

Bold to highlight importance.

> When upgrading existing clusters from older Azure platform releases, migration of LoadBalancer Service is automated but not fully automatic. Therefore we ask of you to delegate cluster upgrades to your SE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When upgrading clusters, migration of LoadBalancer Service is automated but not fully automatic. Therefore, please delegate cluster upgrades to your SE.
```

Reduce redundant words to shorten.

**Note for SEs:** After cluster upgrade to 11.4.0, both old `ingress-loadbalancer` LoadBalancer Service managed by azure-operator and new one `nginx-ingress-controller` managed by NGINX IC App remain on the cluster. To switch the ingress traffic to the new LoadBalancer and remove old NGINX LoadBalancer Service without downtime please:

- Together with the customer have any firewall in front of NGINX reconfigured to allow both old and new LoadBalancer Service IPs.
- Next use [the migration script](https://github.com/giantswarm/azure-operator/blob/master/scripts/migrate-nginx-ingress-controller.sh) to switch DNS records to the new load balancer IP. The script ensures IP is assigned to the new LB, and also that the cluster DNS records resolve to it instead of old IP.
- Now delete the old NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service (the one called `ingress-loadbalancer`).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note for future 11.4.x releases:**

To prevent downtime, please persist this and the above note until all customers are in 11.4.0 and above.
```

Add that this note should persist.

- Allow configuration to be reverted, where these defaults and associated tradeoffs are found not to be appropriate.

Management of NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service is moved from azure-operator to NGINX IC App itself to:

- Enable external traffic policy configurability, in a way consistent with other NGINX IC configuration options.
- Lay the foundation for making NGINX IC App optional and not pre-installed in a future Azure platform release.

When upgrading existing clusters from older Azure platform releases, migration of LoadBalancer Service is automated but not fully automatic. Therefore we ask of you to delegate cluster upgrades to your SE.

**Note for SEs:** After cluster upgrade to 11.4.0, both old `ingress-loadbalancer` LoadBalancer Service managed by azure-operator and new one `nginx-ingress-controller` managed by NGINX IC App remain on the cluster. To switch the ingress traffic to the new LoadBalancer and remove old NGINX LoadBalancer Service without downtime please:

- Together with the customer have any firewall in front of NGINX reconfigured to allow both old and new LoadBalancer Service IPs.

> - Next use [the migration script](https://github.com/giantswarm/azure-operator/blob/master/scripts/migrate-nginx-ingress-controller.sh) to switch DNS records to the new load balancer IP. Now delete the old NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service.

Reviewer 2: Why don't we specify to wait some time before we delete the old load balancer object?

Author: ```suggestion
- Next use [the migration script](https://github.com/giantswarm/azure-operator/blob/master/scripts/migrate-nginx-ingress-controller.sh) to switch DNS records to the new load balancer IP. The script ensures IP is assigned to the new LB, and also that the cluster DNS records resolve to it instead of old IP.
- Now delete the old NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service.
```
Initial step (firewall configuration) is not possible without new LB having IP assigned.
Migration script already waits for IP to be assigned and also DNS to resolve to it. I've added a note about that script behavior. In the steps list I've split the two steps (script running and old LB deletion). Please propose any additional change you have in mind.

- Finally, ensure that the tenant cluster's
  - Azure `kubernetes` load balancer backend pool includes the worker VM scale set, and that
  - All the worker VM scale set instances have latest model applied.

> **Note when upgrading from v11.2.x to v11.3.x or v11.4.x:**

Reviewer 2: I don't think this note is needed anymore.
We don't have any customer left with coreOS (we do have some, but they're going to migrate rather than upgrade)

Author: @giantswarm/chapter-se with Azure customers, if you can please confirm what Christian shared, I'll remove the flatcar upgrade note.

- Next use [the migration script](https://github.com/giantswarm/azure-operator/blob/master/scripts/migrate-nginx-ingress-controller.sh) to switch DNS records to the new load balancer IP. The script ensures IP is assigned to the new LB, and also that the cluster DNS records resolve to it instead of old IP.
- Now delete the old NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service.
- Finally, ensure that the tenant cluster's
  - Azure `kubernetes` load balancer backend pool includes the worker VM scale set, and that
  - All the worker VM scale set instances have latest model applied.

**Note when upgrading from v11.2.x to v11.3.x or v11.4.x:**

This release contains the replacement of CoreOS with Flatcar introduced in v11.3.0. Please carefully read release notes for 11.3.0 including Flatcar OS migration [steps](https://github.com/giantswarm/releases/tree/master/azure/v11.3.0).

**Note for future v11.4.x releases:**

Please persist this and the above note until all customers are in v11.3.0 and above.

Below, you can find more details on components that were changed with this release.

> ### azure-operator [v4.1.0](https://github.com/giantswarm/azure-operator/releases/tag/v4.1.0)

Reviewer 4: This should probably link to the `CHANGELOG` entry for v4.1.0. It's not there atm, but that needs to be fixed.

## :zap:  Giant Swarm Release 11.4.0 for Azure :zap:

**In this release, NGINX Ingress Controller LoadBalancer Service external traffic policy has been made configurable, and the policy default has been changed from `Cluster` to `Local`.**

These changes:

- Enable source IP preservation, needed for IP based security access control.
- Remove unnecessary ingress traffic intra-cluster network hops, increasing concurrent connection capacity and reducing latency.
- Allow configuration to be reverted, where these defaults and associated tradeoffs are found to be inappropriate.

**Management of NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service is moved from azure-operator to NGINX IC App itself** to:

- Enable external traffic policy configurability, in a way consistent with other NGINX IC configuration options.
- Lay the foundation for making NGINX IC App optional and not pre-installed in a future Azure platform release.

> Along with azure-operator and NGINX IC, minor improvements were also made to coreDNS, cluster-operator, Flatcar, and Kubernetes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Along with azure-operator and NGINX IC, minor improvements were also made to coreDNS, cluster-operator, Flatcar, and Kubernetes.

```
Add space haha

## :zap:  Giant Swarm Release 11.4.0 for Azure :zap:

**In this release, NGINX Ingress Controller LoadBalancer Service external traffic policy has been made configurable, and the policy default has been changed from `Cluster` to `Local`.**

These changes:

- Enable source IP preservation, needed for IP based security access control.
- Remove unnecessary ingress traffic intra-cluster network hops, increasing concurrent connection capacity and reducing latency.
- Allow configuration to be reverted, where these defaults and associated tradeoffs are found to be inappropriate.

**Management of NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service is moved from azure-operator to NGINX IC App itself** to:

- Enable external traffic policy configurability, in a way consistent with other NGINX IC configuration options.

> - Lay the foundation for making NGINX IC App optional and not pre-installed in a future Azure platform release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Lay the foundation for making NGINX IC App optional and not pre-installed in a future Azure platform release.

```
Add space

## :zap:  Giant Swarm Release 11.4.0 for Azure :zap:

**In this release, NGINX Ingress Controller LoadBalancer Service external traffic policy has been made configurable, and the policy default has been changed from `Cluster` to `Local`.**

These changes:

- Enable source IP preservation, needed for IP based security access control.
- Remove unnecessary ingress traffic intra-cluster network hops, increasing concurrent connection capacity and reducing latency.
- Allow configuration to be reverted, where these defaults and associated tradeoffs are found to be inappropriate.

**Management of NGINX IC LoadBalancer Service is moved from azure-operator to NGINX IC App itself** to:

- Enable external traffic policy configurability, in a way consistent with other NGINX IC configuration options.
- Lay the foundation for making NGINX IC App optional and not pre-installed in a future Azure platform release.

> Along with azure-operator and NGINX IC, minor improvements were also made to coreDNS, cluster-operator, Flatcar, and Kubernetes.

Author: ```suggestion
Along with azure-operator and NGINX IC, minor improvements were also made to CoreDNS, cluster-operator, Flatcar, and Kubernetes.
```
